Alice's Adventures in Wonderland - Training Excerpt
(Public Domain - Project Gutenberg)

Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank, and of
having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading,
but it had no pictures or conversations in it, and what is the use of a book, thought
Alice, without pictures or conversations? So she was considering in her own mind, as well
as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid, whether the pleasure
of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies,
when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her. There was nothing so very
remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit
say to itself, oh dear, oh dear, I shall be late! When she thought it over afterwards, it
occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed
quite natural; but when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and
looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her
mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and
fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she
was to get out again. The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and
then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping
herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well. Either the well was very
deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about
her and to wonder what was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make
out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she looked at the
sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here
and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the
shelves as she passed; it was labelled orange marmalade, but to her great disappointment
it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody underneath,
so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.

Well, thought Alice to herself, after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of
tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at home! Why, I wouldn't say anything
about it, even if I fell off the top of the house! Which was very likely true. Down, down,
down. Would the fall never come to an end? I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this
time? she said aloud. I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me
see: that would be four thousand miles down, I think. For you see, Alice had learnt
several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a
very good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her,
still it was good practice to say it over. Yes, that's about the right distance, but then
I wonder what latitude or longitude I've got to? Alice had no idea what latitude was, or
longitude either, but she thought they were nice grand words to say.

Presently she began again. I wonder if I shall fall right through the earth! How funny
it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downwards! The
antipathies, I think she was rather glad there was no one listening, this time, as it
didn't sound at all the right word, but she had a dim idea that she had it. She thought
it so funny to think about it that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way. So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam
nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus,
but then she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a
mouse that had slipped in like herself.

Would it be of any use, now, thought Alice, to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out
of the way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no
harm in trying. So she began: o mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very
tired of swimming about here, o mouse! The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and
seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.

Perhaps it doesn't understand english, thought Alice. I daresay it's a french mouse, come
over with william the conqueror. For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no very
clear notion how long ago anything had happened. So she began again: ou est ma chatte?
which was the first sentence in her french lesson-book. The mouse gave a sudden leap out
of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. Oh, I beg your pardon! cried
Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings. I quite forgot you
didn't like cats.

Not like cats! cried the mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. Would you like cats if you
were me? Well, perhaps not, said Alice in a soothing tone: don't be angry about it. And
yet I wish I could show you our cat dinah: I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could
only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam
lazily about in the pool, and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws
and washing her face, and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse, and she's such a capital
one for catching mice. Oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice again, for this time the mouse
was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be really offended. We won't talk
about her any more if you'd rather not.

We indeed! cried the mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail. As if I would
talk on such a subject! Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't
let me hear the name again! I won't indeed! said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation. Are you, are you fond of, of dogs? The mouse did not answer, so
Alice went on eagerly: there is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to
show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair!
And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and
all sorts of things. I can't remember half of them, and it belongs to a farmer, you know,
and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and,
oh dear! cried Alice in a sorrowful tone. I'm afraid I've offended it again! For the mouse
was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool
as it went.

So she called softly after it, mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won't talk about
cats or dogs either, if you don't like them! When the mouse heard this, it turned round
and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale with passion, alice thought, and it
said in a low trembling voice, let us get to the shore, and then I'll tell you my history,
and you'll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.

It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals
that had fallen into it: there were a duck and a dodo, a lory and an eaglet, and several
other curious creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.

They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank, the birds with draggled
feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross,
and uncomfortable. The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to alice to find
herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she
had quite a long argument with the lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, I
am older than you, and must know better. And this alice would not allow without knowing
how old it was, and, as the lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to
be said.

At last the mouse, who seemed to be a person of some authority among them, called out,
sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I'll soon make you dry enough! They all sat down
at once, in a large ring, with the mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed
on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.

Ahem! said the mouse with an important air. Are you all ready? This is the driest thing
I know. Silence all round, if you please! William the conqueror, whose cause was favoured
by the pope, was soon submitted to by the english, who wanted leaders, and had been of
late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and morcar, the earls of mercia
and northumbria, declared for him: and even stigand, the patriotic archbishop of
canterbury, found it advisable to go with edgar atheling to meet william and offer him
the crown. William's conduct at first was moderate: but the insolence of his normans
frightened away many of the english, and thus in the end he became king of england.

How are you getting on? said the mouse, turning to alice as it spoke. Wet as ever, said
alice in a melancholy tone: it doesn't seem to dry me at all. In that case, said the
dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate
adoption of more energetic remedies. Speak english! said the eaglet. I don't know the
meaning of half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!

A caucus-race! said the dodo. The best way to explain it is to do it. First it marked out
a race-course, in a sort of circle and then all the party were placed along the course,
here and there. There was no one, two, three, and away, but they began running when they
liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was
over. However, when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again,
the dodo suddenly called out the race is over! and they all crowded round it, panting, and
asking, but who has won?

This question the dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a
long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead, the position in which you usually see
shakespeare, in the pictures of him, while the rest waited in silence. At last the dodo
said, everybody has won, and all must have prizes.

But who is to give the prizes? quite a chorus of voices asked. Why, she, of course, said
the dodo, pointing to alice with one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round
her, calling out in a confused way, prizes! prizes! Alice had no idea what to do, and in
despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, luckily the salt
water had not got into it, and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one apiece
all round.

But she must have a prize herself, you know, said the mouse. Of course, said the dodo.
What else have you got in your pocket? she asked, turning to alice. Only a thimble, said
alice sadly. Hand it over here, said the dodo. Then they all crowded round her once more,
while the dodo solemnly presented the thimble, saying we beg your acceptance of this
elegant thimble; and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that she did not
dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took
the thimble, looking as solemn as she could. The next thing was to eat the comfits: this
caused some noise and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back. However, it was over
at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the mouse to tell them something more.

You promised to tell me your history, you know, said alice, and why it is you hate cats
and dogs. It is a long and a sad tale! said the mouse, turning to alice, and sighing. It
is a long tail, certainly, said alice, looking down with wonder at the mouse's tail; but
why do you call it sad? And she kept on puzzling about it while the mouse was speaking,
so that her idea of the tale was something like this:

Fury said to a mouse, that he met in the house, let us both go to law: I will prosecute
you. Come, I'll take no denial; we must have a trial: for really this morning I've nothing
to do. Said the mouse to the cur, such a trial, dear sir, with no jury or judge, would be
wasting our breath. I'll be judge, I'll be jury, said cunning old fury: I'll try the whole
cause, and condemn you to death.

You are not attending! said the mouse to alice severely. What are you thinking of? I beg
your pardon, said alice very humbly: you had got to the fifth bend, I think? I had not!
cried the mouse, angrily. A knot! said alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her. Oh, do let me help to undo it! I shall do nothing of the
sort, said the mouse, getting up and walking away. You insult me by talking such nonsense!
I didn't mean it! pleaded poor alice. But you're so easily offended, you know!

The mouse only growled in reply. Please come back and finish your story! alice called after
it. And the others all joined in chorus, yes, please do! but the mouse only shook its head
impatiently, and walked a little quicker. What a pity it wouldn't stay! sighed the lory,
as soon as it was quite out of sight. And an old crab took the opportunity of saying to
her daughter, ah, my dear! let this be a lesson to you never to lose your temper! Hold
your tongue, ma! said the young crab, a little snappishly. You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!

I wish I had our dinah here, I know I do! said alice aloud, addressing nobody in
particular. She'd soon fetch it back! Who is dinah, if I might venture to ask the
question? said the lory. Dinah's our cat, said alice simply, not thinking at all about
what she was saying. And she's such a capital one for catching mice you can't think! And
oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as
look at it! This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds
hurried off at once: one old magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking,
I really must be getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat! And a canary called
out in a trembling voice to its children, come away, my dears! It's high time you were all
in bed! On various pretexts they all moved off, and alice was soon left alone.

What a curious feeling! said alice. I must be shutting up like a telescope! And so it was
indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that
she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First,
however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further: she
felt a little nervous about this; for it might end, you know, said alice to herself, in my
going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then? And she tried to
fancy what the flame of a candle looks like after the candle is blown out, for she could
not remember ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at
once; but, alas for poor alice! when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the
little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she could not
possibly reach it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.

Come, there's no use in crying like that! said alice to herself, rather sharply. I advise
you to leave off this minute! She generally gave herself very good advice, though she very
seldom followed it, and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself
in a game of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond
of pretending to be two people. But it's no use now, thought poor alice, to pretend to be
two people! Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make one respectable person!

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: she opened it, and
found in it a very small cake, on which the words eat me were beautifully marked in
currants. Well, I'll eat it, said alice, and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the
key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I'll get
into the garden, and I don't care which happens!

She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, which way? which way? holding her
hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing; and she was quite surprised
to find that she remained the same size. To be sure, this is what generally happens when
one eats cake; but alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.
So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

Curiouser and curiouser! cried alice, she was so much surprised, that for the moment she
quite forgot how to speak good english. Now I'm opening out like the largest telescope
that ever was! Good-bye, feet! For when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be
almost out of sight, they were getting so far off. Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who
will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure I shan't be able! I
shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best
way you can. But I must be kind to them, thought alice, or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go! Let me see. I'll give them a new pair of boots every christmas.

And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. They must go by the carrier,
she thought; and how funny it'll seem, sending presents to one's own feet! And how odd
the directions will look! alice's right foot, esquire, hearthrug, near the fender, with
alice's love. Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!

Just at this moment her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now
rather more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried
off to the garden door.

Poor alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into
the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and
began to cry again.

You ought to be ashamed of yourself, said alice, a great girl like you to go on crying in
this way! Stop this moment, I tell you! But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of
tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half
down the hall.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried
her eyes to see what was coming. It was the white rabbit returning, splendidly dressed,
with a pair of white kid-gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other. He came trotting
along in a great hurry, muttering to himself, oh! the duchess, the duchess! oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!

Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of anyone; so, when the rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, if you please, sir. The rabbit started
violently, dropped the white kid-gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness
as hard as he could go.

Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself
all the time she went on talking. Dear, dear! how queer everything is to-day! and
yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if I've been changed in the night? let
me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember
feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is, who in the world
am I? Ah, that's the great puzzle! And she began thinking over all the children she knew
that were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

I'm sure I'm not ada, she said, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn't
go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't be mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and
she, oh, she knows such a very little! Besides, she's she, and I'm I, and, oh dear, how
puzzling it all is! I'll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four
times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is, oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the multiplication-table doesn't
signify: let's try geography. london is the capital of paris, and paris is the capital of
rome, and rome, no, that's all wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for mabel! I'll
try and say how doth the little crocodile and she folded her hands in her lap as if she
were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange,
and the words did not come the same as they used to do.
